SENTIMENT TOPIC DETECTION WITH COVID-19 EVENT EXTRACTION

Twitter has acted as an important source of information during disasters and
pandemic, especially during the times of COVID-19. Microblogging has become one
of the most useful tools for sharing everyday life events and news and for expressing
opinions about those events. As Twitter posts are short and constantly being
generated, they are a great source for providing public sentiment towards events that
occurred throughout the COVID-19 period. In this project, performed sentiment
analysis, topic modelling, entity extraction on the tweets about COVID-19. Fast
diffusion of information creates accuracy and scalability issues towards topic
detection. Most of the existing approaches can detect the most popular topics on a
large scale. However, these approaches are not effective for faster detection. Latent
Dirichlet Allocation and Gibbs Sampling Dirichlet Multinomial Mixture are used to
find the topics on twitter. Emotion analysis also done to revealed that there were
changes in the prevalence of fear and joy emotions over time, due to real-life COVID-
19 developments. Additionally, this project aimed at automating the extraction of a
variety of COVID-19 related events from Twitter, such as individuals who recently
contracted the virus, someone with symptoms who were denied testing and believed
remedies against the infection. The system consists of separate multi-task models for
slot-filling subtasks and sentence-classification subtasks while leveraging the useful
sentence-level information for the corresponding event. The system uses COVID-
Twitter-Bert with attention-weighted pooling of candidate slot-chunk features to
capture the useful information chunks. The proposed model has shown 91 percent
accuracy and the experimental results using the real data of Twitter, show that the
proposed method is effective in quality as well as run-time performance as compared
to other existing methods.
